+++
title = "Statistical Prediction of Load Carriage Mode and Magnitude from Inertial Sensor Derived Gait Kinematics, under review"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Sol Lim", "Clive D'Souza"]

# Date
date = 2018-05-30T00:00:00

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["3"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = ""
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Load carriage induces systematic alterations in gait patterns and pelvic-thoracic coordination. Leveraging this information, the objective of this study was to develop and validate a statistical prediction algorithm that uses body-worn inertial sensor data for classifying load carrying modes and load levels. Nine men participated in an experiment carrying a hand load in four modes: one-handed right and left carry, and two-handed side and anterior carry, each at 50% and 75% of the participant’s maximum acceptable weight of carry, and a no-load reference condition. Twelve gait parameters calculated from inertial sensor data for each gait cycle, including gait phase durations, torso and pelvis postural sway, and thoracic-pelvic coordination were used as predictors in a two-stage hierarchical Random forest classification model with Bayesian inference. The model correctly classified 96.9% of the carrying modes and 93.1% of the load levels. Coronal thoracic-pelvic coordination and pelvis postural sway were the most relevant predictors although their relative importance differed between carrying mode and load level prediction models. This study presents an algorithmic framework for combining inertial sensing with statistical prediction to quantify biomechanical exposures from load carriage."
abstract_short = "A short version of the abstract."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = ["ergonomic exposure assessment","task-classification"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
caption = "My caption 😄"

+++
