


+++
# Date this page was created.
date = 2018-09-15T00:00:00

# Project title.
title = "Accessibility of Public Transit System in Individuals with Mobility Impairments"

# Project summary to display on homepage.
summary = "How to measure user performance that can be used to operationalize accessibility and usability of mobility impaired users while riding public transit buses?"

# Optional image to display on homepage (relative to `static/img/` folder).
image_preview = "r2.png"

# Tags: can be used for filtering projects.
# Example: `tags = ["transportation","mobility impairment","wheeled mobility device user","visually impaired user"]`
tags = ["transportation","mobility impairment","wheeled mobility device user","visually impaired user"]

# Optional external URL for project (replaces project detail page).
external_link = ""

# Does the project detail page use math formatting?
math = false

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
# image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
# caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
Mobility impaired users experience physical and cognitive barriers in public transport use (e.g., fixed-route transportation services), which limits their independency, access to employment, social and recreational involvement. This research aimed to identify objective measures of user performance that can be used to operationalize accessibility and usability of mobility impaired users while riding public transit buses. Participants with varying level of mobility impairments were studied (n=96 including manual wheelchair, powered wheelchair, scooter, visually impaired, and cane users). We collected users’ kinematic movement and physiological responses using different type of wearable sensors while they are riding public buses. We collaborated with the Ann Arbor Center for Independent Living and Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Center at the University of Michigan for recruiting participant and conducting our study. 

This project was sponsored by the National Institute for Disability, Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research on accessible, inclusive public transportation ([NIDILRR](https://www.acl.gov/about-acl/about-national-institute-disability-independent-living-and-rehabilitation-research)).

Project website can be found [here](http://dsouzalab.engin.umich.edu/research/transperf/index.php).
